In this lecture, we are going to add the group block for centering our blocks.
On the home page, you may have noticed that our content is completely centered from the header to the
footer.
Naturally, WordPress blocks do not allow you to center your content.
We must apply classes to achieve this effect.
Before we do, we need to ask ourselves if the centering should be applied to the row.
BLOCK The answer is no.
To understand why, I'm going to quickly modify the top bar element with the developer tools, I will
add a fixed width to the element.
The content for our page is going to have a fixed width.
If we were to apply a fixed width to the row block, the background color wouldn't be able to fully
stretch across the page.
As you can see in my example, the bar looks awkward.
Therefore we need to add a child div tag that focuses on censoring the content.
Here's an overview of the static templates.
The outer div tag represents the row block.
The inner div tag is responsible for censoring the blocks inserted into it.
To achieve this effect, we're applying five classes called Container MKs Auto Flex Items Center and
justify between these classes are defined by our themes CSS.
The question becomes which block will help us achieve this effect?
Unfortunately, WordPress does not have a block with settings for censoring content.
This means we must use our classes.
Luckily, WordPress offers a generic block called the group block.
If you have heavy experience with HTML, I would say that the group block is the equivalent of a div
tag.
It's a very generic tag for a grouping content.
If you don't know what block to use, the group block may be suitable for the job.
Let's try adding the group block to the row block as a child in the full site editor, add it to the
template.
Afterward.
Let's apply the classes to the group.
Underneath our top bar, we can grab the classes from the HTML block.
You can find it on the second div tag.
Copy the classes to your clipboard.
Next, switch back to the group lock under the advanced panel.
Paste the classes into the class field.
We won't be able to see the effects until blocks have been added for testing purposes.
Let's add a paragraph block with dummy text inside the group block.
The techs won't be visible since the default color is dark.
There's not enough contrast.
Let's modify the text color of the paragraph block for this example, I'm going to set the color to
you.
To me, Gray 200.
Lastly, save the templates.
On the front end.
Refresh the home page.
Perfect.
The paragraph block is centered on the page.
It aligns perfectly with the rest of our content.
If we add more blocks, they should never leak outside the group block.